This is jockel podcast number 128 with echo Charles and me jockel willic
Good evening echo good evening
It's been a little bit since we've done Q&A so we're gonna roll into some Q&A and
gonna try and answer
More questions than normal with some shorter answers got a lot of Twitter questions which necessitates shorter questions and thereby in some cases
Short-er answers. I've got to I've got some more
Detail answers or detailed questions stacked up for another Q&A but for today
We're just gonna try and get through some of these
For no guarantee on that but
What's rocking all cool jockel do you believe in overtraining?
Do you believe in overtraining or is that an excuse people use you have the CT
Fletcher's triathletes yourself, it's such a good after daily you also find other elite athletes who believe in rest days
Who are by no means slackers?
What's your take?
You know what can you overtrain? Yes, you can you can definitely overtrain. I will say this most people don't overtrain
Because you got to work pretty hard to overtrain and if you overtrain you'll know it if you're paying attention to your performance
Because your performance will start to go down that that's what's happening and I've said this before
I've seen it with fighters that were preparing for a fight and they'd be overtraining and you'd watch their performance
Someone that's normally
Crushing let's say the fighter is normally crushing training partner A and
All of a sudden training a partner A starts getting the better of the fighter and you know you know
It's obvious the guys overtrained so take a couple days off get some steak and
Get get back get
Reset because you're overtrained. So yeah, you can overtrain for sure
Now what I don't believe in well, it's hard to overtrain. I mean these guys are working hard when they're overtraining
but a
A lot of people just they do you can use overtraining as an excuse
What I do is I'm gonna do something every day. I try and do something every day regardless like even if
Even if I feel like I'm gonna like last night
I got kind of beat up on the map. So I know I'm pretty I'm pretty overtrained right now, but I'm also getting ready to go on a trip
So I'm like okay, well, I'm just gonna still school I squatted today
And I'm still gonna train hard tonight and then I got a couple days where I'll be on the road
I might take one of those days and just like do more of a stretch
Mobility
Sineario workouts still to get the blood flow because I got to get the blood flow
But you know, maybe just like a hundred burpees and then a bunch of stretching
So I'll do a little recovery on the road, but yes, you can overtrain. It's hard to do it
If your performance is going down you're overtraining
Eat some steak take a break take a break eat some steak
Well, hundred burpees kind of a lot
I think a hundred burpees. Yeah, I think there's less than 10 minutes put it this way
I did oh then again all the times I did a hundred burpees with after one yeah, so that feels a little different
Yeah, it's just go to a hundred burpees
hundred burpees yeah, that well the kokey so overtraining though is like there's two or maybe even more different kinds of
Clothes on quote overtraining so there's like this like a for real like I don't know for
I'm gonna miss you to a clinical
Version of overtraining which is like official like your blood
You can recognize it in your blood and there's certain things and sure whatever and there's all the spots
There it not as positive to think it's actual thing like you don't sleep and it's like your body
Essentially goes into this like negative kind of feedback or positive feedback loop where it's like
Just your overtraining and it takes like a while to get out of it like a while you gotta go through this process and then
There's also like a condition like raddo so yeah, that's a serious
Yeah, that's essentially overtraining. Yes, that's a cute
You know we're training quickly. Yeah, to usually to get hit with the rabbi and then there's like this kind of gray area and you can get rabdo it
I guess you can get I think I think I think get rabdo and like certain muscle groups
But anyways rabdo. Yeah, that'll take you out. I remember cake nuts. We're rolling cake nuts
He's a kind guy who's like just kind of down for anything not this kind of like
Fire plug type guy because he's super mellow, but he's just down for anything like the kind where if you're gonna go do something kind of weird
He'll or whatever he'll always kind of sort of just be there, you know, he always kind of says yes
So anyway we're training and
He you know when someone asks you to roll and you're done you're like all not done maybe next time. Yeah, not cake nuts
No, he was like okay
Does and you could tell you's like tired is like okay, and then we're all done or adding and then you know
Certain guys come in later whatever maybe one two guys and another guy asked them to roll and we're like dang cake
Still rolling and I think he even rolled before us too and he was just rolling well he might have did some other PT or whatever
He is like man
He's like man I'm pretty tired right now and then another guy asks a well, it's rolling is like okay
And we're just laughing like it's kind of like a white belt
Yeah, which means all these which means all these rolls are not like
Relax scenarios they're actual level nine death battles. Yeah, he's going for yeah. He's a perfect
Don't know by the way. Oh, that's cool. Yeah, but yeah, to time I think he was a white belt and yeah, so he goes in
He's like man, I'm tired messed up and I was like yeah, man
I dig it you rolled a lot and
And come to find out he had wrapped it. Yeah, but anyway, go and then there's a great area over training where you're training a lot
Maybe your test hospital will be down from training a lot and
Me, you know your nutrition may or may not be all that kind of thing
So your performance does go down. You feel a little bit more tired going into training
You know, if you're lifting or whatever you can't lift this heavy and all this stuff
That's like a great you're not overtrained though. You just how you say just you just take in a day two days later
Boom, you're kind of back in the game. You know kind of thing
But I'll think that's a clinical technically overtrained maybe you're not recovering day to day as much or something like this
But cool in the last but all treat things all real things hey your body's this machine man
If you know with all these different systems of the systems ain't work all in working right you may not get you know the performance that you
Do what next question
What would you pack for lunch if you had a typical nine to five job?
Yeah, chicken steak beef jerky not's I don't know a salad. No, no big shocker there. Yeah, right?
Just don't need to don't listen to the office next question no tuna sandwich
No tuna sandwich
All we thread tomato lettuce sprouts that's your go-tongue. No. That's what my mom would probably pack for me if she was
Packing my lunch, but people are nothing what your mom would that feel for lunch when you were young
That wasn't a question
It kind of sounds my mom would have been a meal when I was young
B and J
All right. Yeah, there it is. That's good bag of potato chips. Oh, yes
Well, that was pv and j good, but but potatoes if they're not I just man. He is the same it tastes good
Actually, but peanut butter is good and of course what I would do is take the potatoes from the bottom on the
Like a psycho
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah
So there you go guys know what to eat come on
Work well here. I'm sure they're asking me because that is kind of a thing like you have a nine to five job right and especially if the kind of the culture is like
Okay, I got to work and then boom we got well. Gonna lunch me and my boys from work
We're gonna lunch maybe a bar maybe you know kind of thing, but they want to break the cycle
So it's like you know, it's not it's kind of common knowledge
Okay, break this like will bring your own lunch you yeah, well definitely bring it much not only you will you eat better
But you also won't spend
$19 for lunch
Yeah, you'll spend you'll spend like $6 for lunch and it'll be better for you
So that's just yeah, yeah, okay, so maybe I should have made that more clear
Don't go out to the little
Reconer store and whatever the corner restaurant and spend $28 for crappy food that's gonna make you fat and lazy
Yeah, just pack your own food that costs $6 that's gonna make you lean strong and smarter
Yeah, but and then there and comes this question I think I don't know but I think so because let's say you've never done that before
Yeah, so I'm crazy
There's a thing
So so great change right you always eat stuff and
And I don't think he ever like cooks at home or whatever right and me and kind of well
I'd kind of do both whatever, but I cook it home. I go make I have my go to little things right at home
So we're talking about that was explained to him oh, yeah
Oh, yeah, I'll just do this when I'm on the program
I'll do this so I'll make this and he's like dang you you actually do that and I like cook and make stuff
It's all surprised. Yeah, like it was like this foreign thing for it. Okay. I'll give you a go to right now
You want to talk to you's you said tuna I have
Tin chicken like I don't even know my wife calls it tin chicken
It comes in can yeah, because I don't really like fish sure and so I have chicken in a can
Open it up put some mayonnaise in there you're you're good food. Yeah, yeah, I do that and you can get big big
Big cans of chicken. Oh, yeah, that's a good total go to yeah, yeah, that's a good one
Lot of sodium a lot of times in those ones. You know if you care about those kinds of things, but yeah, there's a lot of chicken in there too
You know you can do with that too if you have just a little bit more time the chicken the one in the can't sweet is good because it's so fast
boom boom boom one speed but if you you can like
Kind of halfway boil some chicken chop it up
What it saute it right with some stuff right and then chop it up even more boom at the mayonnaise is kind of the same deal
And you can do it that way you don't need like they can chicken some people do not prefer can chicken though
That's cool. That's the thing. I can do other things. Yeah, yeah, yeah, then that's the other thing. I'm talking about
Anyway, so well, you know, if you're not made chicken, yeah, I you know, no, it's good
It's like a whole thing
You know, I'll Greg it was foreign to Greg to actually cook at home
It's foreign for people to actually make a lunch like man. Where do I start with this thing? What do I do and then?
Usually in fact from what I understand anyway
Usually it's kind of like oh all all kind of sort of by a lunch
While I'm not at work, you know, maybe good as to buy one of these box lunches or something and then bring it in
Is that a man it's defeating the periets at thing, but it's a defeating the purpose you make the lunch like I said
I want to see like that
I'm telling you cool. It works
That's the direction you want to go. That's my opinion
Next question
You've mentioned being involved in real estate. Are you still involved? How do you get started?
Whether flipping or renting flipping mean buying
Fixing up selling houses or renting or whatever. Did you start with a lot of money or no?
Is it something you are or were very hands on with or contract work out?
I've been real lucky with the whole real estate thing
Part of it's because I was in the military and while the crash happened
I didn't even barely knew there was an economic crash going on
And so with so we're talking 2007 2008 time frame when the the market crashed and
I was in the military so I just was
Captain doing what I was doing and bought some houses then and
I would say yeah, and then I've continued to do that so
It's a good it's a good investment long-term short-term you can get screwed if you think you're gonna buy something right now
Like for instance flipping a house that's cool. You can make a lot of money
But also you could buy right now buy a house for $200,000 and think you're gonna fix it up and sell it for $300,000
And then you buy it and the market crashes and now your house that you bought for $200,000 only worth $150
So now you're you're out of luck
So you the way I look at it, you know just as as a
Normal person yeah, just trying by a house. That's number one. By trying by house to live in and then
Trying paid off as fast as you can and then when you get it to a good point and you fix it up and you think you can rent it out
That's cool. Do it rented out and buy another one and keep doing that
one and I you know, I'm the real estate expert. I'm not
running around but
You know to explain you'm not gonna put out a
I'm not gonna put out a seven or I'm probably listening
Hey, if you're gonna buy a buy a house this is what this is something a little bit of advice if you're gonna buy a house by a house in the place
Where you want to live? Where you want to live in it by the worst crappiest house
But where you want it because the location you cannot change once you buy it you're stuck in that location
And so it's so you can but you can always rebuild it and fix it up and make it nice
So by a house I made that mistake one time I bought a house
I bought a bigger house in a place where I didn't really like it
But I thought oh the house is so nice and big and about it was like two weeks after I bought it
This is actually the first house I ever bought two weeks after I bought it
I was saying man, I should have bought the other house I was looking at that was in the location
I wanted that was a little bit smaller not as nice so anyways buy it where you want it and then
Fixed up as you go along as far as the work doing the work
All the work that I did on my houses I did myself and
Now I don't do too much anymore because I don't have time but when I was in the Navy
Well, you either have time where you have money, right?
So when I was in the Navy I had more time if you can believe that when I was in the Navy and I had no money
So like at all my houses when I bought him I couldn't afford them like a barely afford him
So you gotta be that's now not advising that because
If you you gotta be able to suck it up if things go sideways you're gonna be living on
No money living leave gonna be lean Christmas
That's my parents used to say to me and that's what I said to my kids is gonna be a lean Christmas
So you gotta be ready for the link where some people aren't ready for a lean Christmas. Yes, some people cannot live
Some people cannot
Control their expenses if things go bad and and you know when I bought all my just about every house I bought when I got into my house
It was like okay, we made it now we're gonna starve for two years or whatever
Trying to get everything squared away again. So anyways you gotta be smart
But it definitely makes more sense to buy I shouldn't say this because there's some people that argue get that
I think if you're gonna live somewhere for a while by a house instead of paying someone else's mortgage pay your own and trying paid down as Kirk's you can that's it
Yeah, it's my advice cool agree I guess I don't know
Unless of an experiment yeah like like here's an idea when you join the military a save up all your money don't spend it on booze
Which you're going to you're gonna want to yeah because everyone's gonna be going out don't do that by it
By whatever you can buy by a little condo by something and then rent out the rooms that are in it
And you sleep on the couch and you rent out the rooms in your paying the mortgage as soon as you get that thing kind of stable boom
Go and buy another one yeah, and that's that's how you you can start doing it
You said that it was easier for you in the milk because you're in the military
Why was it my paycheck was coming no matter what?
Oh, it wasn't like I was gonna get laid off. I mean so many people got laid off during the during the economic downturn
Right, they couldn't buy they couldn't afford their mortgage payments anymore and that that was made the bad situation even worse
Yeah, so for me it was like I was just sitting there collecting my paycheck as normal
Didn't even really realize that the market was getting destroyed and all fronts because I was in the military
Yeah, and I wasn't sitting around staring at the
At the stock market every day trying to figure out where it was gonna go and
Do you get I mean you do right you get like benefits or you'd loans easier whatever?
Yeah, they're so proud of the a loan yeah, which which is a good loan
It's a good loan and you can only get one though, so I mean I use that you can reset it and you use none other houses
But which I've done a couple times, but that's a cool like little jumping off point
It's a really good jumping off jumping off jumping off point. Yeah, it's a really good jumping off point for sure
But the thing to be careful of is
speculating and thinking that the prices of houses is always gonna go up
Which is what everyone fought in 2016 2007 2008 hey don't worry the prices are just gonna keep going up
They're not they're gonna come down sometimes yeah, and so you can't bank on that
You can't bank on that what you bank on is like okay
I like this house. It's in a good location. I'm gonna live here for a long time if I get stuck in it for a long time
I don't mad my mind. I won't be mad and
I can suffer
Okay, I can make my family suffer. Okay, like you know when you can't take your your family out for dinner
For months on end like oh no sorry. We're not going out for dinner
No, we're not doing that. We're not buying that
Buying your kids used stuff for Christmas which I did when I was in military
Okay, you know I'd love to get you something new, but guess what?
Sometimes Santa Claus brings some
Recycling the recycled goods
Some other kids didn't want it. That's fine. If you if you don't have that in you to suck it up and and live lean
Then you don't then you need to make different decisions. Yeah because because a lot of time
I know it was like this in like oh seven six maybe where
Guys like I remember seeing people they like a lot of people were just becoming loan officers
Oh, yeah for sure like flipping houses, you know kind of thing and it's kind of all
They look at it as like this get rich quick kind of thing and then they're like yeah
Let me just do it see you know experience
That's there all this stuff and then they'll do it all uneducated all like with none of what you just said none of that and well
I got a buddy that
He he was telling me the story because he was in the seal teams and during that
Market boom during the housing market boom
He bought like five houses yeah and he he's so fun to hear because he's a humble guy
And he's telling tell me the story is 10 years ago. He's telling me the story but he's like
He's like yeah when I was doing this
I thought everyone else was so stupid
I thought I was just the smartest guy in the world because what he was doing was getting these loans that
He couldn't afford but at that time the the mortgage people were given loans to anybody
Yeah, and he did it and he did it over and over and so he ended up with five houses and he said he remembered asking you another
Real estate guy like hey, what if
What if the housing prices go down and then you know the guys like that's not gonna happen and if it does
Even if it did happen you'd have six months to a year to offload all your properties and it'd be
It's no problem
Within a month of that
The market turned and he said 30 days later
Everyone of his properties was upside down meaning he owed more than they were worth in 30 days
And he ended up foreclosing on all those houses except for one he was lucky enough to keep the one that he lived in
Anyway, so yeah, don't you know be measured. It's balanced don't just get crazy
Yeah, yeah, it's not like this get rich like the risks I would take
Was the risk of okay if things don't go well?
It's gonna be a lean Christmas and I'm okay with that if you're not okay with a lean Christmas and a lean and not going out for dinner
And buying your kids use presents for Christmas if you're not okay with that, but you know
What do you want for your birthday? Oh you want to you want something for your birthday cool?
We I'll get you something that resembles that but it might not be the act if you're not okay with that
Then then don't do it. I never would gamble the fact that okay if this goes wrong
We won't have anywhere to live that's a different that's a different level gamble
I didn't gamble that I didn't gamble like okay if I if the market goes sideways
I'm not gonna have a place to live. I didn't gamble that if the market goes sideways
Hey, it's gonna be a lean Christmas and even you like by your own admission you said I
You know, I do it where I live lean kind of thing like you don't have to do it that way like you can be
Way more yeah, you know, you could get yourself for yourself. Yeah, but no risk no reward
But don't risk everything be smart be calculated
So yeah, buy something buy something when you're young hang on to it. Run it out buy something else hang on to it
Run it out. That's a good plan. It's a good long-term plan
Gotcha, juck a long-term plan long-term because the market goes up and down. Yeah, this is probably good advice most of the time
Anyway long-term. Yeah, thank long-term. Thank long-term. Yeah, yeah
Down time do you ever watch mindless to ask do you this question before do you ever watch mindless TV or
YouTube videos to decompress at the end of the day or is that laziness justifying waste of time?
You know quite frankly I don't have a lot of free time to do that even if I was all fired up to watch mindless video on YouTube
So I guess
I guess not really if I'm gonna decompress
Sometimes
I mean sometimes my kids want to watch something and I'll sit there and watch
I'll see what I can go watch an episode of the office
This
It's gonna get kind of mindless kind of funny
Yeah, yeah, that's a that makes sense same same deal. I think probably you know of course
I'll watch my whole life. Oh, that's a good one
Kind of mindless thing. I can tell you this. I've watched zero
If they put it on screen right out I wouldn't even know what it was
Lafon we went we were in the hotel gym the other day. Lafes like check it out
Yeah, you point the TV. I'm like what is that that's a why if I bought you know what you're talking about? Yeah, yeah
I took a picture of it. Yeah, he took a picture of it. He said he felt your presence. Yeah, it's good
That would've fired me up best work out in the world right there
Wi-Fi vote. We're in God. Oh check
Next question. I'm a high school football coach
When you were in charge of training at what point did you use mass punishment?
Yeah, mass punishment. That's basically when the team's not working together
Right when the team's not working together and that can take all kinds of forms, right?
But if they're if they're not working together they're gonna get punished together if they're blaming each other they're gonna
You're gonna get punished together if they're not supporting each other they're gonna get punished together
one thing that I think with a gray area is is if you have an individual
That's making mistakes having problems not performing correctly and then the team
Who's responsibility is it to get that person up to speed? It's the team's responsibility
So if that person continue has a problem. It's like hey if the team doesn't take care of that problem
Then the team has to have to pay yeah, yeah make sense man
Next question instilling and maintaining discipline in
Subjective career fields such as becoming a musician artists, etc
How do you face the obstacles thrown at you when you're subjected to people's opinions to make a living and not the
Standard do your job type of lifestyles
This this this question I'm not sure if I have an answer that people are gonna want to hear on this one
I think first of all I
Originally thought like okay, this is about discipline and you need discipline to get good at craft because that's for sure
Right if you want to get good at
Music or art or whatever you got to you got to have the discipline practice, but that's not really what the question's about
the questions about how do you
Survive and
How do you deal with it when people are might not like what you make and from my perspective?
I think you should do things like art and music because you really love doing them and not to make money and I think
I
Think if you do those things truthfully from the heart
Then it will strike a chord with other people in many many cases because human beings have
Whatever human nature is all kind of the same and so if you do something then people will like it and then you will end up with people that like your work
If you're doing art or music or whatever to make money if that's your goal
Well
Then it's going to be subjective and that's going to be problematic because people might not like what you're doing and so then what you do you change it a little bit then you change it a little bit and you change a little bit
So I don't know to me it's like I would rather have another job that makes me money
So I can get by so that I can do what I want
Artistically if that makes sense
I actually had a guy the other day that was like
saying
You get up early
But different people that are artistic
They have to have a different path
Because they you know if someone's going to kind of make music or they're going to
They're going to draw or paint or they're going to write they need to have freedom
I was like well, I'm kind of written some books and then and I play music in a band
We make rock and roll you know what I mean? Yes, I didn't get all crazy with the guy
Of course you do like no I'm in order to I
Just like a man, you know if you want to you do what you want, man, yeah, but here to help you out
But that's kind of like like doing the podcast like the podcast isn't like oh well
We need to do this so that we can get more people listened so that we can get more money
It's no actually if you don't want to listen this don't listen and we don't wear beholden the no one
No advertisers are going to pull their advertising from us because we don't have any
You
Yes, so we can do what we want yeah and not be worried about one other people think and I think when you do that
Here's the here's the
The where the thread ties back in I think if you're doing what you want and you're creating what you want from the heart truthfully
When it gets out there people people get into it next question. How can I introduce my female boss to the extreme ownership way without being offensive
Just sell it as improvement given the sense before give the book to her and tell her
That you read this book and you really like it and you want to become a better leader and if she could read it and keep you and check
If she sees you get not aligned she you to appreciate it and just let her read it
Yeah, then let the book work is funny you guys are talking about this is the master. I think late
Maybe you said it maybe they said I don't know but you're like I'll tell you how you don't do it
Yeah, throw the book out of it and say you need to square yourself away read this book and of course
Not good no
Next question
Do you experience loneliness while at the top
It's lonely at the top ever that expression yeah, yeah, yeah
It's lonely at the top if so how did you handle it you know actually not really and I guess for me from my perspective
I look at the top being when I was in leadership position while I was a student commander or a task
Into commander or the commander of the the training detachment was it lonely at the top not really man
I had friends and people that are hung out with and people that I would trust to talk and have conversations with
And so that wasn't really affected then on top of that
I actually don't really mind being
All-one it's not a big deal to me. I don't feel lonely when I'm by myself
I'm fine. Yeah, somebody asked me the other day
Are you an introvert or an extrovert and I was like mom probably both and you're like no
Nobody you have to be one of course because right right they said so the task over there and I said
I said well I don't care I literally don't care well like it's what if I'm gonna room with a bunch of people
Okay, if I'm gonna room with by myself don't care whatever bring it
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I think the extrovert if I'm not mistaken like look like has a need you know
Like he's there they're like attracted to you know other people being there
Yeah, so I guess that's what I said. I'm like yeah, that's fine. Whatever don't care
alone so yeah
You know and I always like I said I had friends that
I trusted and weren't weren't like
were good enough
friends that they weren't gonna be trying to
Get their own gain out of being my friend, you know people that were friends with me before I was in a leadership position and people that remain friends after so
Yeah, it's not not that big of a deal to me. You know luck. I guess I'm lucky because I mean it must be a thing if everyone says it
Yeah, and I guess maybe in like I'll tell you what you do you do you work?
I'll tell you this this is you when you when you're when you're at the top when you're at an owner or you're the leader
There's times where you have to do things by yourself
Yeah, there's no doubt about that and if you have a problem with that you you're gonna have a problem being a leadership position
Because there's things that you have to do is leader you have to lead from the front you have to work harder you have to do extra
You you should be working harder than everyone else when you're in a leadership position of an organization
No doubt about it and if you're not
Working harder that's not good and if you're if you're working harder
There's gonna be times when you're not with anyone else and you have to be okay with that and I'm perfectly okay with that don't care
Yeah, and that's actually what when that's what that expression means it's only at the top meaning like
You're at the top because you're willing to in a general way of putting it behave or be a certain way that other people either
Okay, yeah, yeah, right so you're not gonna be able to relate from that perspective
You're definitely only at the top. There's no one that's gonna sit there and do what I'm willing to do
Yeah, yeah, to be there
Like where are you at? I don't know haven't seen you, but I'm gonna prove myself and I'm gonna keep getting after it
Right, that's kind of the way yeah, that's how people end up in those positions
Yeah, you don't end up in those positions. You don't get gifted positions. You don't just get end up
I got just shouldn't say never, but I didn't
Yeah, sure
Yeah, had to grind it out
Keep grinding it out. I
Think yeah, you know what I think about this question. I think this what you said doesn't surprise me at all because as
A human being I think we all kind of
Maybe sometimes we do sometimes we don't admit that it is good and nice to have like someone there
Kind of supporting you in this way where
Where you kind of feel like oh your feelings matter kind of thing yeah, it sounds super soft
But it's like kind of deep down inside where like let's say you know how like you know look
No listen
So you know the idea that like people just don't understand
You know that concept okay people just don't get it. They understand or whatever
So when you go to the top that feeling is everyone everywhere the people just don't understand
This is the difference. I don't look at it people in the negative light because they don't get it. I'm fine with it
Yeah, like I recognize that what I'm
I recognize that I'm not 100% normal yeah, and I'm not yeah, it's not like I don't look down
Right, I actually I said this when I just get interviewed
Oh, I got interviewed on a business insider by and and
He's like well do you always keep your discipline? I was like no people get all the seal teams and they get fat and they don't care anymore
And it's like I don't I don't care about that. I'm stoked. You know that means they're stoked and eating breakfast and bed and they're hanging out with their kids
It's all good. I don't I don't have a negative opinion of them
Just like I don't have a negative opinion of someone that prioritizes things differently than me. It's fine. Yeah, it's perfectly fine. Yeah
I get it that that's my point and I'm okay with that and I'm not looking around going
Wow, we should have more people to hang out with it's only up here. That's exactly what lonely other top is though
Yeah, and there's a there was when I was in my first seal putton
I went to Gwom
We got there there was a guy and I don't even know who did it. I don't know where this I don't know who this was
But there was a seal that left like a a surf ski you know what that is
No, it's basically like a kayak that you sit on top of
Anyways, and there's just a little a little a little note to himself. It's at the higher the fewer
Yeah, meaning like hey when you because he was training hard for what I don't know who he was
It's at the higher the fewer so that's the same thing. Yeah, I'm gonna shoot with it. Yeah
Okay, make sense. Yeah, man, so like you know when you're in the office working
You know that's what I tell kids too because that's a whole bullying thing is people kids kids get the feeling that being alone is bad
Like being alone is not a bad thing you should be comfortable being alone. Yeah
Yeah, and as a normal human being it's key I think
For the most part okay being alone is one thing but being alone with no choices another so like if you
You know you're at the office because you just grind all day you're at the top
Slowly at the top whatever you're in the office you're working everyone else is out at
You know Thanksgiving whatever but you're working because you got to work you're at the top
You're still the man but you're working you know kind of thing some people not you some people will be like man, you know
Like I'm in this top position, but I give up like all these you definitely give up things you know
And yeah exactly right but again you say you're okay with it. I get it of course. Yeah, but if it gets to a point where I'm not okay with it
Then I adjust the balance there you go. Okay. That's how you deal with yeah
But you're gonna be playing the long term name. Yeah, not the short term gratification
Check, what's wish
Would you ever consider being in the reboot of the office all you mentioned though
That's why I've been to the go
I had read the questions earlier, but it's always it kind of in my head layers
Do you like Dwight Shrewt the best? Shrewt the best?
Shrewt? That Dwight Shrewt what's wrong with you? Shrewt? Shrewt farms. Yeah, uh the office is a great show
And my kids are obsessed with the office for some reason so I watched the office sometimes with them
There's a British version of the office and I actually prefer the British version of the office
I guess because it's just my personality, but the British version of the office is kind of depressing
Funny, but it's kind of depressing because
The American one goes over the top
The characters are over the top. They're an extreme
So they're funny
You go oh that's funny for for the boss to have that attitude. It's a caricature the British one is
Tone back just enough
That it's more realistic and
It's it's a little bit depressing
That's what my kid. I told my kids got to watch the British one the British one is much better and my kids watching like I don't want to watch that
It's depressing
So yeah, that's great and Dwight Shrewt is an awesome character
Yes because it kind of because everyone knows a Dwight Shrewt who's Dwight Shrewt?
He's a character in the office which one though. I mean I've
Seen it and stuff, but I don't know the names of the guys. He's a guy with glasses. Okay, like this self defense and
Yeah, I was a bit of a darky
So you would be in it. They're like reboot of the office. Hey, Jockel. We want you to be
What I don't do I true or whoever I could be yeah, what's the name guys name Michael right the character in me?
Yeah, the boss yeah, yeah, Mike actually what's funny is when you watch that show you can see leadership issues
Yeah, you know you see the glaring leadership issues
To give little good little less and slern for leadership in there. Yeah sure
So who do you be who's your choice? Hey, Jockel. Oh, I'd have to be one of the people that are in there
Yeah, yeah, this is well reboot actually don't be cool. It'd be a super hard core version of Dwight Shrewt like a legit
Super hard core version of Dwight Shrewt that'd be pretty funny. Well, isn't the whole kind like comic genius behind the character of Dwight Shrewt
Is that he's so dorky like a Napoleon dynamite type guy right like he's like so dorky, but you like yeah
This bar chord right true, so you could be super hardcore, but it'd be inverse you'd be you'd be just dorky like your daughter
You know, Dwight Shrewt is trying to sell the his hard cornness, but he's just dorky take any character to the extreme and can be funny
Yeah, so in your case actually if you if you like when I'm on Twitter
I take my character sure, you know with someone says what's what's a good dessert steak
Just having fun. Yeah, right?
You're like the two techs message to by the way
So yeah, so your character is hardcore underlying hardcore
That's like the known thing when but then you're trying to be all I don't know like smart or something like you know like
Like this is for the the reable boot
I'm not worried about it. No, man. That's how it is. Look at the classic
All right
Next question has seen kids in hell holes ever made parenting harder for you
Leave it or not leave it kids
Not really when I when I was overseas and you teach kids in horrible situations it just makes you
Appreciate the opportunity that you have to provide for
Your kids and to try and help those kids as much as you can so I don't think it made parenting harder for me
Yeah, just make you appreciative. Yeah, with the opportunities that we have for sure. Yeah, I feel like I know that question where
Yeah, I want it if I see like kids and animals it it doesn't make it harder, but it makes it like
You're more sensitive, you know like you just stop just affects you more with your kids. I don't know in my
Experiences what happened because you kind of can't you know like it messes you up when you see like like my wife will
Read like uh trafficking like human trafficking art because he's stuff and you see but when it be pictures or video
Whatever and so it kind of leaves them mark in your brain. So I don't know maybe you're just playing every day kind of stuff
And you see your kid and you're like dang you can't help but remember those pictures and dual comparison
Oh yeah, well, that's what that'll make you paranoid too in a good way
Yeah, yeah, yeah, be careful with your kids. There's evil people out there. Yeah
Next question how do you reduce your bosses anxiety levels do a really good job?
You know what I mean stay out of the power curve do a really good job keep them informed and kick ass
And that's how you relieve your bosses anxiety step up. Yeah
That's that's good advice for your wife, too, by the way
Relieving your wife's anxiety levels. Yeah, for sure. Take lead, right? Not lead like oh, you know call all the shots in this
early but you know if if if you guys are trying to figure out where to go for dinner boom
Call it call it man. Don't be like oh whatever you want don't do that
Don't create the leadership void. Don't do that
Check I learned that for you by the way
Next question trying to keep in shape while traveling long-term
And not use not having gym access as an excuse for letting my standard slip best pieces of
Kit training styles from maintaining conditioning and adding mass while living out of the back
Did get rings yeah get rings get gymnastics. What gymnastic rings? Why would because plastic or metal will make
You get sweaty and slip and you have to bring a ton of chalk you need a little bit of chalk with wood rings
It's a little bit of a reserve and there's the best thing to grab on to so yeah get wood gymnastics rings
You can carry them anywhere and then just do a bunch of counts that next time come on, man
Just I don't know what adding mass how how do you add mass can it's like oh you got to get creative
Yeah, you got to get creative but it's you know instead of doing squats, you know air squats
Do jump squats or you're doing some dynamic. You know what do they learn metrics? Yeah, I do one like epistols
Yeah, all that stuff. Yeah, yeah, that's the I got to do that right now like I can't
You can drill the hole in like
This is called the owner, so they drill the hole and they attach the 10 and not in the hole
They go to push the 10 and through the hole. They put an anchor at the end of it boom
Anyway a lot of swelling in the forearm you can't grab nothing you can't grab anything and have weight
You know
So calistening because you got to kind of make your position you're wrists in a position in like a comfortable position
And you can do calistening
Anyway point there is I'm in that boat or lifting weights is not an option at this very moment for me
So you got to kind of get creative so like a push up
You can make the pushups harder if you put your feet up and the higher you put your feet
You know the harder it becomes or you do like a one-on push-up situation and then you can do like a declant like um
You know you go on a counter first, right?
Okay, how many of these one-on pushups? You can do more than 20. Okay, maybe you go for like a chair or something like this
Something something a shorter
Boom you can do more than 20 of those. Okay now I can go to the ground
Seems like and then you can go raise your feet up as it's time goes on boom. There you go
Good for and actually body weight through space is the best way to build size
In your muscles there
As far as like exercise is go good information. It is better than dead lifting and squatting well okay, so that dead lifting squatting that's gonna be
The
It's gonna depend on the weight, but think about this dead lifting and squatting is moving your body through space
So
Doing air squat you're moving your body through space is as opposed to max squatting with weight
So I'm back squat right right right right but one squat yeah
Good you can hear me with squat yeah, but again like as a
Moving your body through space is the or the best exercises for
What is what is not moving your body through? Like okay squat compared to a leg press
So if you go again, why even those aren't even in my those aren't even in my mind
I know bro, but this guy asking the question. Okay, it might be
Well, I'm trying to help him out. I don't want to help you. You got the whole exercise thing figured out. I get it you know your
expert in your
boring workouts
Talk about that later nonetheless
So body weights or body moving your body through space is the best exercise the problem is or tends to be
That your body has a fixed amount of weight more or less
So you can adjust the weight and usually you can move your body through space a bunch of times if you do air squat
You can do a bunch of air squats so it doesn't provide the quote unquote tension that you need to build mass
That's what you go one at a time
Create more tension on your muscle while still moving your body through space which could wind up to be a better exercise for you
That's what I'm saying that's good. Okay, man whatever
Bride don't act like it's crazy that I'm saying this stuff that's the question you really the question
You're going to love with this whole moving your body through space thing yeah
That's a good information. Really. I just have no idea what that I I kind of get it now. Yeah, but you were saying it as if it was
some
Unknown it is unknown moving your body through space. Okay, so you know what a hammer strength
Yes, okay, so it's all you know, it's like a it's like a I don't know like a lever kind of thing
Yeah, yeah, you know you put some plates on it you push it. There's no pull here nothing, but you know
You're moving your body through space. You know moving your body through space. You know, I'm moving your body through space
So I'm kind of creating the spectrum here so could just consider that then it's kind of far down
There's other movement or things that are further down this spectrum, but that's fixed movement
There's no balance required. There's no whatever. It's just like you're just pushing late. It's isolation
I suddenly did yeah playing the plane is isolated all this to the plane movement. Cool, right?
So that will have less neural muscular activity when you push it even if you're pushing heavy weights
Then something like
Graduate to like a barbell bench press right for example
But even that even though you do have to balance so that's a big step up
But even that you don't have to balance in certain planes certain planes of movement you don't have to balance like the what you call this with lateral
whatever the lateral movement and a barbell bench press which is the bar
You don't have to balance it's fixed but front and back or forwarding forwarding back whatever you do have to balance so you know still good
Now go to dumbbells now you have 360 degree plane of
Movement that you have to balance more neural muscular activity so dumbbells are better than barbells in that way
Neurmuscular activity and you can adjust the weight so you can do things where you can only do three reps
You can do things you can do 20 reps if you want so boom great exercise
Carefully do it on hotel room, but just saying general so you can good exercise
But now you go the tip top the best
Exercise for normal muscular activity would be pushups
Because same thing you're moving your body through space you're not balancing weight balance
You're going to bring all the ball get even better now you're going like creative which is good. That's like beyond the spectrum which is good totally good
But so yeah keep these things in my I think when you when you do a thing
What so if you can add or when to work out so when you if you can add weight that's the challenge if you can add weight
To these moving your body through space exercises that's when you can get well
I think now I'm just going to take this one step further do it because you don't necessarily have to add weight as you stayed in earlier
You can adjust how you're moving your body through space and then you can get the
You can get additional and I'll tell you what really makes this obvious is if you do any gymnastics training
If you do a pull-up that's hard if you do a talk pull-up where your knees are pulled up
That's even harder if you do a
L sit pull-up where your knees are up but your feet are pointed straight forward
That's even harder each one of those things is a little bit harder the same thing with a dip like just a regular dip
Like if you've got your feet hang it's easier if you bring it up to a talk
Isn't a little harder if you bring it up to an L it's even harder
So you can keep doing these things and there's squats that you can do. I mean just doing pistols alone that's a lot harder
Some people can't even do pistols yeah and so you might have to do an assisted pistol to start off
So yeah, you can make it happen pistols got a hard man, especially if you've never done it before
This is hard because the ballets
Yeah, there's a balance back and side-to-side balance
Hard to reach 160 degree plane of balancing that's what this whole thing's about moving your body through space
Is that what it is?
If you place that's where do you read that old school buggerian
Philophilasyphi workout program called this is the old school never deviated from it much the core
Really good to it by the way
Oh, it's called
serious growth is what it's called weird right like that's such a lame name
But man I was in high school and I was like, all right, you know you read all these things right and you know the butt back of the
You know muscle magazine whatever in the little article. I remember all the bullgarion
Yes, kind of like
That was a big thing
No ballgaring well, yeah, because the ballgarrants are doing really good at weightlifting. Yeah, I'm quite no one knew it was weird
And these guys were like yeah five weeks or four weeks my bench went up to this
You know when you're in high school band check it
I'll get that out of it. So you get the program says book and it's just called serious growth and it explains everything really in detail
I'll say dang this is pretty good real plain English to not all those rules
So whatever and
Maybe there's a and they were doing keto too by the way. That's where I learned about keto
That's crazy. Yeah, it's been around for a long time
Well the hackens book came out in the
60s or 70s. Yeah, that's way different though. It's not it's not way different. Yeah, yeah
It's different. It's not way different. Yeah. This way this guy. That's been around for a long time
Yeah, Mark Dr. Mario or Maro de Pasquale. Oh, yeah
That's who was the keto guy and again back in the phone. He's still around
Yeah, okay, so yeah, so we did this thing we get this book and it's like laying it out and you know
I'm down 15 16 years old. I'm down to lift
I have days a week. Let's do this and bro. We did it and you eat good not like crazy
I didn't do the keto never did
But you know they have it as an option and so we did it whatever and we it was weird since
But I gained like 20 pounds and I just we just kept doing it so you know you play football. You can't really gain that also
This whole thing that you're 15 and your body's just filled with testosterone
You're getting you you were gonna gain 16 pounds
I'll tell you this right now. I'll talk in a jodie minute about this briefly too. I'll tell you this right now if even at 40 you go on this thing
It depends on your pain. No, no go on this this type of work
And I'm not even like selling this work on or nothing like that. I'm saying this so people will think and think you know what though?
Okay people think you're on steroids if you do this work off or like six weeks that's it six weeks
They'll think you're on steroids straight up like my whole life when I'd like go on a pro on a like a six week thing
They're all he's on serrits. Obviously he's on serrits. It's no serrits. You only have to take supplements. That's the weird thing
But here. Let me see this though now that I'm thinking of it as or about it when I'm grown adult
Most programs if you actually do the whole program
Exactly works
Really good that's the thing people just don't do the work up. Yeah, like it's like oh, what do you need to do lift heavy weights a lot
Eat good and rest good. Yeah, yeah, you'll get yeah, and let's and let's face it
It's not is like if someone says oh, yeah, it's easy. Here's the thing. It's not easy. This is why it's not easy
It's not just the workout that's why you have to do the workout then you have to eat enough of the right things do by the way
And then you have to rest enough. That's basically you have to change your whole life
So if you're like it's easy just change your whole life. It's not easy
So and not that I'm not saying that that's a good excuse or anything
But I'm just saying it's not quote unquote easy, but yeah, there it is
But check do where a diet exercise eat good workout good and rest good you'd be good hotel or gym easy
That actually here's what you can do here's what I do when I go to the master or wherever
If I'm there for like a week like the last master all like going Google maps and finding like all the gyms
And be like all right, I'm gonna get that's kind of the commitment
Obviously, you know, that's an interest. That's your commitment like you want to stay in shape
Add mass as you say conditioning adding mass whatever look for the gym near your house
Commit to pay that gym fee. It's just like what 10 bucks or something like that and boom that's the commitment right
Do that that's what I do
Same thing with you just about all the next question
Forgive or wait to settle the score
You know what this is kind of a question. Okay, so forgive
If you can forgive people for me, that's cool now here's the thing got that little thing eaten in the back of your mind because you want to settle the score
I know I feel you really don't I don't I don't I don't I don't I don't tell you like hey just forgiving forget right
But but it's hard to do that sometimes especially if
Well certain situations merit, you know a little bit
It's hard to make that happen a little something extra special, but this is what's interesting for giving someone is actually
A form of settling the score
Maybe you can think about that so
for me the best revenge you can take on someone is
Success right is ignoring them and the best revenge is not even letting them know
That you even think about it anymore
That's the best revenge in my mind so you forgive them and you just move on
I think that's the best thing to do forgive them move on and go kick ass in the world and
And the little part of your brain that really wants to take revenge
You'll be taking the best possible revenge you can you'll be doing the best possible way and it'll be the best for you as a human being yeah
So that's what you do. Yeah, yeah, I forgive you and then you go kick ass
For giving someone for real like for real for real for giving them is really hard
Even if you do take the high road behavior wise on the inside it's like you kind of don't
There's this guy high school actually when I mean high school was you're so high school grudges no
I get I guess technically yeah
It's still there like if there was like if you were to see I don't know something good that I did like now and be like
Oh, man, he's doing good that would give me satisfaction right now. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, that's still there. I'm gonna something
but
if it's
To forgive someone fully to be to a point where oh, yeah, if you saw that I was doing great now or something like that
And that wouldn't move me either way to get to that point is resupar art
So I think just like how you said like the behavior that you want to kind of
You want to be in act. Yeah is
Is yeah, don't let it bother you and here's the thing with don't not letting it not not letting by the don't let it affect you at all
Like no factor like you almost like you didn't even notice kind of air. Okay, so that's hard to do
Right answer you were there. Yes, you can do that if you can pull that off
But that's the worst for the other person say it so like you ever you ever had like
Maybe what I'm saying but bro I'll get this where like
Did I say you know you think to yourself dang did I see something to piss that guy off wherever it is whatever
I don't know somebody where that girl or whatever
Shoot did I say something are they offended whatever and you just don't quite know
But it's not big enough to bring up so you can't bring it up and get that satisfaction of knowing you know
But if they don't just don't say any let's say they were offended say it don't even like you but they just don't don't like talk to you rather than
If they ignore you or
Don't acknowledge that you said something or something like that
That's way more that bothers you way more than them like
Custon you out or something or yelling at you like I'm super mad at you and them telling you they're mad at you is way more like sad as
Like yeah, then them not if you just ghost them forgive them and move on yeah, but if you ghost them
You can't overly ghost like you can't overly ignore
Just be like hey, yeah, like literally like
Yeah, yeah, oh good. Yeah, it's good to see you have to know that's why something's going good for you if
It's like you're mad at someone and they text you like hey, you know
Oh, and if you give them like one word answers or you don't text them back that messes with them way worse than you say
Yes, I met at you and you hurt me and you pissed me off
Whatever, I ain't all these games over them. Don't brag. I laid it for me, bro
Check good advice right there good advice next question when you you've crushed your daily to do list
Do you then take the time to relax or do you text him next day's list?
Is that against prioritize an execute since the mission is done for the day?
You know just do more just keep going
Even if it's on the next day keep going do more if you have extra time do whatever you can do to stay ahead
And I do that pretty much until I'm brain dead and I I can definitely work myself into it until I'm brain dead
Like I can get to a point where I'm reading or I'm writing and it's just it's just it's just done
I'm done and so I just have to stop and take a break and I'll go do something mindless for a while
You know, so you know if you forgot stuff to do keep hammering until you can't hammer anymore and then say
Oh, okay, you know what? I need a little breather and then take a little breather and then get back to it right now
I could work 24 hours a day
24 hours a day yeah seven days a week 365 days a year and
And I wouldn't be able to get done things I'm trying to get done
So it's not like I'm sitting there going oh cool. I got a break no. Yeah, I can save all I has got as more stuff to do
Got things to do so not a bunch of boys you call it breaks and it relaxing
That's not a lot of that happened right now now go surfing is that a break kind of it's like a big break
Well, it's kind of hard of the process. It's like if you're doing five sets of 10 on the bench
What are you gonna do?
One set of 50 no you do find sets of 10 so first set of 10 what do you do get a rest?
Get a recover that's what surfing is that's the it's the rest between sets. That's all that is right there. You go as part of the process
check
But what would you would you recommend for someone who's like a normal person?
Do what you can knock it out build up extra three time if you need a break take a break
Got you that's pretty crazy right?
No, what I'm saying is like do what you can if you need a break take a break if you need a little relaxation takes some relaxation
You know waste your time though see people people do relaxing, but they do what they don't even do it good
They don't even feel relaxed when they get done. It's not productive relaxing. Yeah, they're they just what they did is they did something stupid for an hour
They watched YouTube videos for an hour. Yeah, they did that help you know
Godside go for a run do some burpees go surfing go do some jiu-jitsu
Play with your kids whatever do something that actually has some value. Yeah, the real value
But to what about you know, palhana and we're going to the bar
Yeah, that's not great, but sometimes you get to hammer because you're hung over the next day
You can't account you know you can't function as good boom can't your output your productivity
Cause down next day
Better tell everyone what palhana means because not everyone knows like all pahana. I guess technically it means
Done with what you're doing palhana means done Hanam means like do yeah
But yeah, palhana, a potential what you're doing tip it's referred to when you're finished with work. Yeah, that's where I was used
You know, yeah when you finish or palhana go good. Yeah, you know, whatever. It's like Miller time. You know, that's the same thing a little bit
Next question. Would you recommend jiu-jitsu for a 55 year old female with no former martial arts background
Is the risk for injury to lie? Yeah, I can't say this on a bunch of times. Hey, yes, you should do jiu-jitsu
Pick good training partners get your ego out of the picture and go very slow and learn the techniques and you'll get something out of it
Yeah, watch out for sparring rolling live
You need to be really careful and you need to really select good training partners that are very much more experienced than you are
Don't roll with white belts if you're a 55 don't even roll with blue belts if you can help it as a 55 year old unless they're small and smart
Just be careful, but yeah, it's a great training. It's a great thing. What about?
Because I actually got assist online and I was actually
Through DMs like going through this a girl class him tailor if I'm not mistaken
You got a first name anyway, should black belt and she
You know when it comes to girls rolling just even just regular girls or whatever
Let's face it. I mean in training they do have a bigger kind of kind of obstacle in that way where they're at
They are at a higher risk of injury more times because everyone if they're rolling with the guys
I mean everyone chances are everyone's bigger than them and they might be going hard and they you know
Some guys especially early on they don't realize that dang they're putting a lot of strength and
And you know all the stuff into these moves again. I can't even guys like
Yeah, they don't even realize it. They're that weird exhausted. Yeah, I am relaxed
Exactly where they do have this obstacle. It's right even 55 year old
Lady or even just an older person in general
They do have that added obstacle where yeah, you do have to kind of so what's the question yeah?
The question is like what do those people do? Yeah same deal. Yeah, no they they have to be more
Extremely cautious they have to take more caution. Oh, okay. You're 100% right. What you're saying is right
You didn't and what is what I just said you don't want to go with the psycho white belt
You even want to go with any white belt right
Yeah, because they're they don't know what they're doing so go with someone that's a purple belt someone that's relaxed there
55 year old woman is gonna be on a different
A
Pace down the path. Gonna be on the path but just at a different pace
Yeah, and and the stress is to I would focus on the the learning of the technique a lot more
You know, it's been a lot more time drilling and
Learning the technique and then occasionally with your black belt instructor with your brown belt instructor with some of the high level
Purple belt smart people
You do nice little roll with them you have some fun. You see what works. What doesn't work you learn a little bit more
Take that path take a pace down the path. All right, right don't go in there with a big ego and
Here what happens every time like
If you introduce to you to people they think that they have the solution to something that you teach right
And it's like no you don't actually have the solution you are don't know anything
So just just don't do that. Yeah, is that the monster and you know we teach you just for the first time too much people
And we're teaching the oopa right do the oopa escape the oopa escape
Where you roll the person over from the mountain and
This one guy, you know, he's like I'm teaching what's doing this one guy is like I
Look this doesn't work and he's got his weight all the way in the other side. He's got his leg up
I remember that yeah, and I'm like I'm like yeah, there's another movie just do this pop up and now you're in the garden
But like in his mind like you just just told me wasn't it but doesn't that's a work
I don't know what this crap is that joc was all into but obviously doesn't work
So no actually it works so you don't you don't uncover the magic of jiu-jitsu in one
Moment, you know
Yeah, oh actually you know what I do remember the question so you know how it like kid fit five year old women
Roll with you know high level people people that you trust people who have like a lot of control over the
The situation what about like let's say I you know on the 55 year old woman avatuin sister she's 55
We're in the same shape kind of thing just normal people and can we roll you better be careful
You better calm down you better not get competitive you better relax
Now one thing that's good is I would say yes actually
Yeah, I would say yes thinking you know why because you're around equivalent strength you're around equivalent knowledge
You still got to be careful. Yeah, I would prefer you go a couple six months before
Before you jump in and do a death match with your twin sister at age 55
Yeah, I know you you've been competing with each other
So just just trying to relax you know I just say Jade trying to kill you like dude
Come on when Jade used to try no sorry. Oh, yeah, he tried sure he could try no I know that's what's saying he tried
It's funny the jay even from birth jay was a little bit bigger than me
Not anymore no no no and I think it's literally a direct result of it of always being a little bit
You had a smaller in complex yeah, you like a little small mini micro bit bigger than this dude and you know when that happened
He was bigger than me through high school through through
Even through college you bigger than me until
We're done kind of with college and also just gonna lift and I ballooned up to like almost 250
Pay 250 and then he was like were you athletic when you were 250 yeah surprisingly yet not as fast
Back up there again. I was it as flet oh, I was off, you know, you know a grown adult
It doesn't make sense for me. I'm not
Paul I don't know this is my opinion and plus in a whole lane 250
Not as lean as I am now no I wouldn't call myself lean or
But I wasn't fat though. That's a thing I even have this old picture of me in my friend Scottie
He's a cop now by the way he
We're like because he would lift it. He was a little bit important
Yeah big time and
We were like this is when I was like 245 he was like maybe 230 or something like that and yeah, I was big
But I was like that was like surprisingly defined though. I got it that day. I got it that day. I
That's and then I went and ran a four mile run and I and I did not feel good
Yeah, and I was like okay. I'm done with this. Yes, I mean, I was pumped to be 250 just because you know
You're 50 but I ended it a four mile run. I was like good God. This is horrible. Yeah, I can't do my job and that's the answer
Yeah, that's the answer why you don't want to be 250 and even
Like that's a huge amount of weight even health wise especially as you get older whatever like to be
Just rolling around 250
Yeah, and if you can't do a four mile ride if you can't do I probably
Thinking back like even a one mile run would have been kind of kind of more difficult to get out with a
Like at 250 that's not a good sign. Yeah, the last that's uh that's how it went
So yeah, it's the point they're being I got bigger than than Jade boom and with that little micro Napoleon complex
It grew like I was more like aggressive or am even still not like more like
I'll take up more aggressive like I started to
You need to consider I started to just take a lot more aggressive more aggressive more
That's one because I don't figure about that way you think Jade's more aggressive
Maybe like to get in like a debate or something. Yeah, definitely aggressive
But yeah, physical activity I'd probably start due to I was like before Jade started I was like well into purple belt
Yeah, for Jade even started
And that's a big gap. So yeah, Jake can try to kill me. He will not kill me just simply won't it's almost impossible
It's pretty much
Technically impossible if there's
Oh, so if you go a percentage right chance you can't ever beating me the percent of the percent chance of him beating me
Is close to the zero that it is one percent true that's how it is right now the almost you went on the complete warpath
Oh, what do you mean if he trained just try to try it all the time? Yeah, that goes for everybody
Currently that's all it is. Oh, yeah, so he's a zero percent he's off the path doesn't matter he can get on the path still
Zero percent chance next question. I'd like to hear your thoughts on people entering the military in their 30s
I'm sure you saw it
How they fare and ring the military at an old rage is fine. You got maturity you got experience you got intelligence
And so that's good. You're gonna bring a lot to the table. However you also have maturity experience and intelligence
So the only downfall of it is you got to do some dumb stuff on your in the military and and and if you're older and
You see how dumb some of the stuff that you're doing is
It's gonna be harder for you to do it. You're gonna have a little bit of a negative attitude on if you allow yourself
It'd be easy if I should say that if you allow yourself it'd be easy to develop a negative attitude about that stuff
I joined when I was 18 years old I didn't care you want me to do whatever you want me to do
I'll do it. I didn't see this stupidity and a lot of the stuff and so I think that's the only drawback
Because you'll just be looking at some of the stuff that you do in the military thinking oh
This is much more efficient way to do this and if you let that get to you it's gonna be problematic
So going there with an open mind do the crap the the tedious and kind of mindless stuff that you got to do and
Push through that and then you'll get to a position or leadership and you can do your best to mitigate that and take care of other
Soldiers sailors airman and Marines
While you're out there serving the country. So yeah, it's awesome. It's great. You'll you'll be a big benefit. Mm-hmm
Do you think that that even that
How you're saying like okay you'll you'll you kind of look at things in more of an adult way kind of thing
Where it's like all this more efficient way to do something
Do you think that that mindset would kind of keep you from you know being more cohesive to with a few allow it to it
Definitely will if you if you that's why I said you have to allow if you just go look
This is this is the way it is right now. I'm a I'm a E1 in the military
They're telling me to do this thing. It doesn't make any sense right now
I'm gonna do it to the best of my ability and move forward if you say all this is stupid
And you spread the negativity the other guys know why we doing this. Yeah, it's gonna be problematic
So going there have a good attitude you can promote really quickly if you're square away like that
You know, so you got a good opportunity
How do you I think it's totally good to go what about even like socially you know like kind of like
Oh, you want to think about it. You're 30 years or 18 you've been out in the world. You've had a job
You probably have a house. You might have kids these kids are I was out of high school like you know what I mean
It's you're not there yet you're and you think about
What you know when you're that age compared to what when you're when you're 30
Yeah, you know my big things. I tell my kids all time. You know
Or like my oldest daughter who's in college and whatnot
And I'm always like when I was your age. I was my first you'll put to you know like
You're just kidding even compete with what I was doing
The responsibility and I had when I was 18 years. I know all that stuff
But but the truth is when you're 18 you're not as mature as you are when you're 30 so yeah, there'll be a social disconnect
Like I went to college when I was
I think I was 28 or 29 or 30 and so yeah, I was around kids that were 18 19 years old and I
Realized very quickly that you know you'd made some mature kids
But a lot of kids were just they're just young. Yeah, I mean there's not a big difference between 18 and 15
For some people right yeah
You think about what you were doing you were 15 years old 16 years old like I'd join the military
So luckily I had some kind of structure imposed upon me
Yeah, but you think about the kind of stuff that you can do when you're 18 years old people do dumb dumb dumb stuff
You you you look back and you you're happy that you made it
Yeah, you do dumb stuff yeah, you know we're talking about wasting your time on YouTube videos go waste your time on YouTube
Like just put in like you know
Teenagers doing dumb stuff
And you'll you'll save out and in 50% of the stuff that you see you'll recognize
Like oh yeah, I remember that so yeah, don't do dumb stuff and as an 30 year old in the military
You can help give some of that guidance to people so I think it's cool go for it man and kind of vice versa
Right cuz like if you're the 18 year old 19 year old guy
There's like you know 100 well however many other 18 19 year old guys you guys are cruising then here comes this 30 year old
You know all level headed bro. I can't relate to this guy this kid's kind of weird that the other thing is when you're 18
You don't even know how much those 30 year olds
You just think you know you actually think you know more than you're looking at them like the 80 it's like why would you not
You know
Swing off this rope and see if you can get through the window on the third floor
Why would you not do that?
Yeah, exactly so that's something I would be out brace yourself for that to remember the perspective of an 18 year old and
They're not looking at you going gosh, I'd really like to learn about the area
I'm looking at you like I can't believe you're doing the military what's wrong with you
Yeah, old man. Yeah, old man
There is there were guys who actually they came from the military and still eligible right for for footpoint college and
One guy was 26 one guy was 27 and
It let's think let's face it 26.7 that's you know that's you're
Physically like you're solid still and we looked at them like man these are like these are old school guys
These are like old one careful with my own practice
Yeah, like literally it was like I felt like that for one of the guys anyway and then you go to class right in you get these people who you know
They don't go to college right after high school. They go, you know later on when in my opinion when most of us should go
When you know why you're going and so this one lady was in my class. She was maybe 35
Six whatever
Did you look at you with the scust all day long? No, she didn't look at me at all. Oh wow she's freaking like
Donner on program. Yeah, like I was no factor in her life before she was doing yeah literally the correct way to do it. She sat up front
Weird oh yeah, and she's asking questions
Literally, and that's really the way to go when you think about it
You don't even have to think about that's the way to go, but nonetheless
She's like this, but she's obviously 30 something years old and it just didn't compute to me
You know like oh
That's the most important thing one on us, but that's a really key part of this conversation is when you're eight
Imagine as a 30 year old when you're looking at that 18 year old they don't see
I understand
So check
No sir we don't
One
18 next question
You've said everyone will know if you're the one taking ownership and leading the team in spite of having a poor leader or someone who does
Everything for the one glory
But what do you do if your boss is boss doesn't make the connection between your work and the team success
Good
Good, you know what I do keep working hard. That's awesome. Make keep making your boss look good
I recommend that you put your ego in jack because you know we can take credit for for what for what's happening
You're looking for that glory and there the boss is doing it for glory
Well, guess what that's making you mad because you want some of that glory. You know what it'll come
The two things about this number one let him have it make him look great
You worried that the boss's boss doesn't get it. It will come in due course be patient
Work hard
Give your boss the credit don't worry about it and in due course it will come you you can't fool
The boss the boss is boss won't get fooled forever
They won't get fooled forever and you know what or is case scenario you get your boss's you get your boss promoted
Cool now he trusts you you work hard for him. You did good. He put you can take his role
It's okay
Okay, this is very common. This is no
Strange question
Next question
What do you do for fun when you're not kidding after it? I?
That's kind of a weird question
Right? Why because you're always getting enough well because is surfing getting after it? Yeah
It actually is you're getting after it. Yeah, it is getting after it is playing guitar getting after it
Well, yes, it is is rocking roll band getting after it. Yes, it is
Okay, I guess
And I'm hanging with my kids is that getting after it? Sometimes I kind of it turns out what we're doing guess
We're doing jitsu so yeah, I don't know
What I do for fun when I'm not getting after it?
Just stuff that I enjoy doing like you said earlier like it doesn't take discipline
To go and do jitsu if jitsu is really fun for you and jitsu is definitely fun for me. I would say
70% of the time
I'm I'm like super stoked to be going and roll 30% of the time. I don't feel like it. I go anyways
Or say 28% of the time sure there's like two percent of the time where I recognize oh
I'm gonna get hurt today because I'm beat up or I'm tired or whatever
It's like okay, you know what?
Maybe I won't try today yeah or and even on those days sometimes I'll come in and I'll just do a light roll
Just to make sure
Put myself a little discipline check
So yeah, I don't know people that that's the kind of the thing where
I guess from other people's perspective if they're thinking jitsu is not fun and working out is not fun and and
Practicing an instrument is not fun well than I'm not ever having any fun
Yeah, but actually the opposite is true all those things are fun for me so I'm having fun all the time. There you go
Yeah, it kind of kind of goes
In line with them that other question of mindless like do you ever do mindless stuff? So maybe that's kind of the
No work. Oh, yeah yard work cleaning the garage
Stuff like that, but you know actually you know what it is now that I think of it. It's the the question could be could be
Do you what do you do fun meaning what do you do like mindless stuff that's that's not
Technically productive so you say turf surfing
Me surfing is not technically productive. I don't know though. So it's one of those things
But you know what you feel good when you get out of the water. I mean you get a little workout
Actually it is because you get better at surfing. Yeah, so it is kind of productive
But there's no there's no productivity to surfing. There's no
There's no ultimate goal
Other than doing it itself. Yeah same thing with guitar, but you're getting better at guitar
So like even like yard work for example. It's like sure that's not your mind. Yeah, that's productive
You're improved. It's productive. So what you're asking me is what do I do that's completely unproductive?
I don't know right now. There's not a lot of hard to squish in the world. There's not a lot of things right now
Then I'm doing that art somehow productive. Yeah, I think but anyway because technically
I'm going to be on the other side because that was the actual question. You're just trying to
Yeah, I'm all assuming free me
Presuming the you you know because watching YouTube back to the question watching YouTube videos of like you
Like try going YouTube actually don't do it, but if you do do it do this go put in the search in YouTube
Go drunk girl fails. Okay, that's what it's called
Girl fails. Okay, so there's probably maybe 500,000 to 10 million of these videos potentially that's my estimate
So what that means is once you're done with one the other one's coming and here's the thing
It never gets old so that is actually I do think it gets old all right well
Yeah, that was more of like a really colleague's adoration, but it takes a long time
I would argue for for most of us for it to quote unquote get old so the point there is that is something that is straight up not productive true
You can learn a lesson much of that the lessons to be learned from those videos get learned literally the first video
Yeah, literally and then well, no, they don't get learned in the first video because the first one just seems like it could be an anomaly
It's like when you tap on someone that's never done to just before it takes like three or four before I go
I get it, you know something I don't know so you gotta watch three to five drunk girl fail videos with your you know
16-year-old daughter and say like this is why you don't
Get drunk. Yeah, this is why yeah, actually you know believe me. Okay, we'll watch two more and we'll see if there's any of these things that that you would want to
See yourself behaving as yeah, but and you could argue that maybe if you watch five six seven ten 20
You start to see another pattern get revealed within the pattern of drunk girl fails
So one of them is you know a girl writing a scooter down this path
So you're not like not just don't get drunk, but don't ride scooters
Exactly right exactly right. We don't dance on the bar when drunk. Yes, exactly right
So if you see let's say within the span of 15 drunk girl fail videos you see
You know
30 of those is girls dancing on the bar versus only two of them were girls on a scooter
You can kind of discern that dancing on the bar
Statistically
Is a little bit more dangerous. I'm just saying it. Wait we're digging for lessons
So that's a bad thing
Digging for lessons is a bad thing
That wasn't a lesson bro. Sorry digging for lessons next question
Virtuality requires your favorite subject discipline creativity is important as well
Does a single focus on discipline inhibit creativity
No
Jimmy page next question
Seriously Jimmy page what a good job
Jimmy page let's up one good-tarr virtue Oso practice with discipline
I just answered this on the kids podcast because Jimmy page
Played guitar so much when he was in school
That they had to take his guitar from him during like study halls during lunch
Like no you can't just sit there and play guitar you need to do other things
Yeah, that's how much he practiced. Yeah, he practiced so much. He became such a
Such a skilled player through that much discipline that he was able to get more creative
Then almost anyone else on the guitar so there you go. It doesn't it gives you freedom
It expands your creativity
And Jimmy pages one example of a multitude
So let me ask you this I guess we kind of talked about but not really I've never actually asked you that I can remember
So if you and let's assume that Jimmy page
He didn't do it because he felt like this is you know that what I should be doing right now
Whatever he did just because I'm addicted to guitar. I love it and there's nothing I'd rather be doing and all this stuff
So if you the question is if you just love doing it and that's why you're doing it so much
I love guitar. I don't want to eat dinner right now. I'm busy on my guitar
Just you know enjoying myself and learning and just loving it every single moment of it
I don't want to go surf on moment guitar. Boom every single day. Is that discipline?
Yes, because let's say okay actually I don't know I guess not technically
Yeah, go it is it is it is but
I'd be hard pressed to find somebody that
Love's doing something so much that they do it all the time with no discipline whatsoever
Yeah, and and I think I agree with you there
But technically is that discipline though because you know take Michael Jordan a for example
That's not a good example. Well, I think the guitar examples good because if you really love doing it
And that's what you're doing. I'll tell you what takes discipline even if you enjoy it
Yeah, I'm gonna stick with that answer for now. So let's say you know when it any even more important answers
I don't think it matters. I don't think it matters either so I don't know because it's like it's because it kind of all to at the end of the game
It did you put in the hours of practice and did you get good at it? Okay? Did you get good at it? That's what it with the question first
Did you get good at this thing?
I'll tell you all the time pretty much with very few exceptions the way you get good at something is practice and then
You know
Usually since you can't do one thing all day every single day for you know 30 40 50 years
It's gonna take discipline meaning you're gonna have to do it even though you don't want to do it kind of thing
Which is part of what discipline
But what if that part of it doesn't isn't there because even like Michael Jordan. He's so good
And he's probably love basketball whatever, but there are there is of course days where he's like okay
I'd rather maybe be there. No, I'm gonna take this play
That's why it's not an example
But the real person
Because because you get a person
That loves something so much that it took them zero discipline
I don't think that's a realistic person
I think that anyone that does anything
It gets to a point where the only thing that drives him to do that extra percentage is discipline
So I guess I will stick with it. Yeah, so I guess the question if you want to kind of relate it to like a real person
So you know a person who again just like loves it right just loves what they do
Of course they're gonna have some discipline because they're gonna have some days that they don't love it or whatever
Like are they would you consider a discipline person in their in their field?
Yeah, but we've also talked about this before just people that are very disciplined in one field and completely undisciplined
Other fields. Yeah, so so it's kind of an indicator that that might not really be technically disciplined
Technically they got the practice again. I don't think it's hours
Do your work if you like it. That's great if you don't like it
Here's a pairs of indicator if you if you don't like doing it. Well, what are you doing it for?
If you don't even enjoy it
I mean the end right? Yeah, it needs to to the end or whatever means to an end
But if you're gonna dedicate level 12 to something that you don't even enjoy I think that's kind of problematic. I think you're right too
Next question when you realize that nothing will change in the leadership do you tap out and move on or
Continue trying to be a good leader to your crew who deserves it. That's definitely a question that
It requires a little bit more
Information to give a good answer to you know because what's the situation can you be is there an opportunity that you could become the leader longterm
Because that totally changes the outlook right if if you could if you could do a good job and step up and move them to a more senior leadership
Position where you could take even more turns or take even more care of the crew
Well, then that's a positive thing and it might be worth hanging out for
also
Is it a complete dead end like is there no possibility
It's a family owned business and all the senior leadership is related to the family and you're not part of the family and you're never have a chance
That that changes the prospect. I mean obviously that's like okay, well, maybe it's not worth taking another
If you leave can you leave where you can give open the opportunity for other people to go where you're going right which is not a good thing in terms of
You know
You're not being very loyal. You're being anti loyal. You're being
Unloil disloil if you do that but if the leadership that you're working for isn't taking care of the people
Then you you have to have some loyalty to the people you work with so there's that
I think that
You you you have to assess everything that's going on in the situation which which is not
Evident in this one quick question. I would say this to like don't blind side your boss
Right, that's something that if you're gonna leave leave on good terms
Explain to what's going on also that can be an opportunity to start a conversation about how the leadership could
Implude prove a lot of times people don't want to change anything until it really
Smacks him in the face and one of the things that smacks him in the face is when one of their good people comes in and says hey look
I I'm gonna leave because of these reasons and again you don't
On the exit interview or on those conversations you don't just drop dime and make everyone make it out to be this horrible situation
It's a here some things that I've noticed here some things that I would want to change here's the direction that I see the company going
And this is the direction I think it should be going and for these reasons I've decided I'm gonna go try you know trying my hand somewhere else
I think if you'd be open like that it can start some good conversations and possibly you could make some progress
Or
Possibly you could confirm your suspicions which are no one wants to change no one wants to do anything different and if that's the case
And you realize it's dead end for you. Yeah, you gotta take that option
You can't beat your head against the on the 40 you know you can beat your head against the wall 47 times on the 48
Time it's like okay, I need to do something different. So pay attention to that
Next wish
What could we all learn from tenacious D that most people overlook
You know
Create a cool question. It is a critical question, but there's actually a real a real legitimate answer that and that is that tenacious D who's a
a very
funny group of individuals
Jack Black is one of them who's a
musician and a comedian and an actor and Kyle gas is the other member
What's what's great about them is they don't take themselves too seriously and I think that's the lesson
The Lord is don't take yourself too seriously have some fun and
Don't take yourself too seriously, there it is yeah
And I would say there's difference between taking yourself
Seriously and being serious so you know how like
Being serious is like okay, you're not necessarily joking all the time
But taking yourself too seriously is like you know if like a joke is made about you
Or you can laugh at yourself for that kind of stuff. Yeah, sure so you can be serious all the time
You be a serious person and not take yourself too. That is true and that's a good that's fine
That's fine the person you don't want to be is the person that takes themselves too seriously all the time
Yeah, that's a problem so inversely I guess could you be too
Like could you be a very not serious person but take yourself too seriously?
Could you be a very serious? No, it's not so could you be a very like joking?
Not serious person. Yeah, for sure. And it's like that's the person that you can dish it out but you can't
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah
Let's see if let's see what you did there
Next question unless there's anything more from tenacious D no, you know maybe some good songs we can
In Sparado, right? That's from tenacious D that's right. I got to give a warning that language is not appropriate for kids with tenacious D and nor some of the subject matters
So be careful with that
The warning next question you mentioned you rarely pay play closed guard
Rarely is this just a personal preference
I would say that it is somewhat a personal preference right because there's definitely some people that
Intentionally play closed guard that's their game
But at the same time in order to attack even from the closed guard most the time you have to open your guard
So therefore your guard is open so open guard. Mm-hmm. That's kind of what I do
Skip the step of opening my guard, but you've been in people's guard that have really good close guards. Yes. Yeah, it's not fun
No, and that's why I try not to let people close their guard. Yeah, because
You know, you can prevent that from happening. Yeah, there's people that have really really solid psycho closed guard
So I'm not anti closed guard and some people are great at it
My personal preferences to play more open guard. Yeah
Yeah, it's one of those things where close guard if you're not a person who always plays closed guard or whatever it can be
Just something that you kind of use for specific situations, you know like if you're trying to maybe
Read
Regain some energy or something like that you want to rest a little bit or even in like a self defense like a striking scenario like a close guard
My yeah, Mike no the closed guard is there's no doubt that closed guard has
Viable purpose and it's good and I do use it as I'll use it a lot
Yeah, and if you're a taller lanky guy close guard. It might be a little bit short
Fat legs that you know, you know, close my close guard is like my toes are touching
If I think on the side of the person yeah, and actually where it stems from if you went to the root of it is it stems from
Footlocks so you close your guard when your guard opens your vulnerable and that there's a moment where you're vulnerable
And if you're training with guys that have really good full locks
That's not a good situation so that's where I started not closing my guard because it was always that transition period where
My feet were vulnerable so I just stop closing my guard and kept it open and move my fit feet towards me to get in a little bit safer
Next question. We got time for one more. Yes
Yo, Jaco what's the best way to include?
Yo, Jaco what's the best way to increase ones confidence?
You want to increase
Your confidence. I'll tell you what I think
What you do if you want to increase your confidence is
You do Jaco
You work out you get stronger
You read and you study and you learn and you get smarter
and and then you practice
Speaking and you practice
Speakings that you can become more articulate and then you practice some more and then you
Then you do hard things
Things that are challenging
Things that are tough and then you get tougher you don't quit
That's what you do and then you stand up straight with your with your head high and then you're chin up and you're chest out
And at the same time
You also stay humble
Because you don't know everything and there are people
That are better than you are at some things people that are smarter than you and they're stronger than you and faster and more athletic than you
And they have more money and they got better looks and they're funnier
But all that is okay
It's actually okay because
There are things that are more important
More important than being strong and smart and athletic
More important than all those things
Things like loyalty
honor
will
Things like courage
The courage to stand and the will to keep going
And to do the right things for the right reasons
And if you know
If you know you won't give up
And you know you won't give in and if you test yourself and you fail
But you know you're gonna get back up again if you know that
If you know that
Then you know that your character is strong and that's what matters
And that right there
Is all the confidence you need
And I think that's
All I've got for tonight
So echo yes speaking of being stronger
Yes and faster and doing GJ2 sure and learning and just being on the path overall
Maybe you could give us some information on how we can effectively efficiently move down that path yeah
Support and support ourselves support ourselves in support others. That's really ultimately really what it is
Makes it it'll mutually supporting. Yes, so I will talk about our company a little company in main called origin
Origin main dot com this is where you can get
Jocco superkro oil is for your joints omega 3s
Omega 3s have a lot of benefits valuable benefits
But the ones that I personally
Have reaped
Reaped benefits you just can't reap the foot and carry the food
So watch out for that but
If you are in the reaping mood reap some benefits of Jocco superkro oil by way of your joints being healthy
Big deal when you're super young like young
1920 all of it died say like maybe 27 maybe I don't know maybe older
This is less of a factor but at the end of the day your joints are healthy
You're gonna be in a way better spot way better spot
Then you would be if they're not also another
Supplement called joint warfare this one I mean they all have anti-oxidant stuff in them
But joint warfare has glucosamine and conjoined
This is for what like cartilage a tendon type stuff and curcumin curcumin
Yeah, so you put those together boom the ultimate joint supplements big deal huge deal like you can be super strong
And be lifting and but you got to warm up like for 20 sets just because your joints are all like stiff and whatever
Say say buy to that problem you take these
There it is boom joint supplements get on it go to orgime.com
Also another supplement called discipline this is for your brain
Make your brain work better. It's nutrients for your brain. That's what it is and also
nutrients for your body
So it's a pre-workout. It's a pre study. It's a pre mission supplement called discipline
Get down same place orgimeen.com
Taste good to by the way is other flavor out when is other flavor out? Well we're making it right now so
soon yeah
A little further than soon soon to me is worth yeah like a little more distant than soon
Yeah, but we're working on like when you're shipping yeah, that's soon to me and it's penal call out of by the way
I'm sorry sorry
I got a different name for it
Yeah, coconut no, I got a better name for it. I got it later later later. Okay secret name because I'm not sure it's lethal or not
The name okay guys you haven't mind all right cool. We're all very excited about the name and the taste and you know whatnot
pineapple coconut is the working title
Working title
There you go
Cognitive and physical force my multiplier good on also milk. Okay, so milk
I'm gonna say the word protein powder, but I'm not saying milk is protein powder
Yeah, if you want some additional protein
You can let it get it that happens to taste really really good like a mint chocolate milkshake
Not a diet milkshake like a mint chocolate milkshake and you want protein take milk taking every day
If you want to my buddy sent me a text he goes yeah, I saw that mole cad
Probiotics in it
I think even better and he said I he said so I just wondered it cuz I need some yeah, and he's like
That stuff is good. I said yeah, I know yeah, I know and he's like yeah, it's awesome. So anyways making the super size milk
Shake yeah, hey, man. I can relate cuz that's literally what I do yeah, no I could tell when you got on the mole
Train because you're attitude changed. Yeah, you know you went from like oh yeah, and we've got more could it's good
blah blah blah blah
To when you were like hey
It's got a game changer. Yeah, you know it's it's so filling what is it like so filling
Feeling like like when you eat it you just feel completely on your drink it you feel
Seachy it
That's why you know you know the term meal replacement yeah, like only got a meal replacement
This isn't supposed to be
A meal replacement it's not supposed to be the intent was an okay replace
But what happens is if you have it like yesterday
I had one in the in the afternoon. I had a light launch which was crap. I had a crap launch crap like not
Not healthy not healthy
Little off the path so I was feeling like okay and then so in the a little later than that
I said you know I'm just gonna have some more great now to do reset the path and then I got home from
You jutsu last night six hours later
Didn't even barely eat anything for dinner because I was still full. Why is that?
Amen, it's um feeling
Yeah, I guess that's why it's five days
Satisfied you're a multiple front. Yeah, yeah plus it's like all I'd like to come come on you kind of knew that it was the mall
Can you relax solid you felt good about that you were satisfied about that that's probably a big you know factor
So it's not supposed to be a meal replacement but that's not what it was engineer
Yeah, it was an engineer for but it turns out that if you have it you won't be that hungry because you be so full yeah
Yes, too for milk. Yeah, so it's so it's so different we had to create a different word for it
Yeah, man that's gonna be in the Oxford English dictionary soon sure it will it'll be oh it'll be
They'll have to define it in the OED you know the OED is
Oxford English dictionary. Yeah, yeah, that's the real deal right there. That's the big one. Yeah, that's the
Big one that's the mother of all dictionaries must be must be it is yeah, there's no must be that dang and milk is gonna be in there
You say all right, we'll put it in there. I won't you have to petition for it because people are just gonna start
That's all it's just gonna be yeah, yeah, it's just gonna be how and really that's how words get in the dictionary
No, I know it's just so easy. Yeah, just keep using it and here's the good thing about that word not to go off on too much
A tangent but a will and I don't when doing it with this situation. Yeah, milk is an actual legitimate situation
Mulk it's milk, but it's not like the word e-regardless and you know, you're like misusing the word because they're not you know
Educated on that specific word the user regardless their friend uses their neighbor use it their whole
Meets are gonna get in there too. Oh, Pahana is a Hawaiian word. I know, but maybe we'll get it into the English dictionary
But it's not English because that's a thing
Know the the English dictionary is not filled with words that are only English the whole English language
Right up of other words got your console
I can get Pahana in there right and milk. Yeah, well petition we can't petition you don't petition to get him in there
You actually just use the words so like the word forte I wonder if that's my forte when people start trying to rip off milk
It'll be like hey we use your ox me a copy of that right but it'll just be the they'll just be the way
Yeah, yeah instead of a new thing
Yeah, like I'm gonna you know first I'm gonna work out and then like I'm just gonna
Yeah, oh you picked me up some milk from the store
People say well what kind of milk do you want right and then won't be just be talking about because it'd be nine different brands of milk
Okay, you're from the kind of the east way is New England East coasts that technically fairs it can say okay, so
Do you grow up in a place where they say coax or pop we call it soda. Okay, so yeah, we call this little to so I
So okay, that's normal to me in you know as far as my experience goes and then there's pop
You've heard pop. Yeah, yeah pop that's like the Midwest okay. Oh, hi-o and then there's coke. Yeah. Yeah, like coke
It's not breaking. I get a coke. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, right
You know what I had to do this uh when I was going to college I had to it they wanted us to get the words
For what okay, what do you call if you get an ice cream cone and you get little flavored tiny bits all over it
What do you call those little flavored bits?
Oh, sprinkle okay sprinkles that's that's one of the standards
There's a there's some people that call them jimmies. Okay, okay my wife's ring one
And so I did this to her
So we had that we had a bunch of words that were broken out that people call different things like soda pop
What it like what do you call this what do you call that where you from what do you call this what do you call that?
I did this with my wife and I actually luckily recorded it because I knew it would be interesting
How do you record it like on a tape recorder? No kidding tape recorder. Oh, yeah, and then
I go and I so I asked my wife you know, what do you call the things that you put on an ice cream cone that are
Little different colors and they're a little tiny bits of sugary candy. What would you call those and she without
Missing to be because hundreds and thousands
Hundreds and thousands
I started laughing kind of a mouthful hundreds and thousands. Yeah. Yeah, there's no sugar and then I said
because okay, what do you call?
Ham
Manays lettuce on a long bun
That's what do you call that yeah sandwich is that me?
There's no specific but I get it. I don't we call it a hogey okay, but I don't know like a sub sandwich
Okay, so we used to call the grinder. Yeah
That's like a new England grind to get it. I want to get a grinder
But my my wife calls it a bap
Bap bap hand-bap and this
It's like I said what do you call that thing and she's like oh, it's a bap hand-bap cheese bap
Anyways, and what's that just a long sandwich like a long look at the subway sandwich
Yes, sub club sub so it's a point people are just gonna say mook and that's gonna have a meaning
Yeah beyond just what we have right now
Yeah, because people will be making it everyone's gonna be trying to make it sure sure
It's gonna be just so kind of you know what's gonna be it's like oh you'll have it's gonna replace let's say replaces lunch like so oh like oh
Yeah, three meals a day breakfast mook and dinner
Right, oh, what are you gonna have? Oh, yeah, hey, they're gonna come over from mulk later on
Yeah, right, hey, you guys coming over tonight to have some mulk and watch the game. I have some mooks. Yeah, right
Yeah, you're gonna look on kids elementary school schedule would be like boom, you know recess and then you know
1130 mulk and then you know
Bullon history you know, yeah
Got you
Yeah, that's where it's going the horns gonna sell mook break
Yeah, yeah, oh, Hannah let's go get some milk
Moons for some it's palana. Yeah, that's what I said a lot of times on that my part of the island we called it a little bit
No, right right that's I can I got you man. I have the new England how I
All right, so that's mook
Mook, okay boom
Yeah, that's a good get your you get your hands on some of that you're good. Yeah, palana and I didn't and it means
Finish work means when you're done work your pile. Oh, I know exactly what it did come on this for the people
Maybe they did you know you know, but yeah, but if you say pal p a you yeah
Sounds like pio pio w like pal pal. That means finished
Little yep direction for sure are you pal?
Yeah, are you finished?
Hey, I pal. Yep. I'm finished. Definitely. Yep, how do I use that?
Hannah means like you do like you're doing
No, you're doing it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, if you say Hannah hope that means let's do it again
You know whatever it is or like if someone usually they say well a common place they say it is like if a band is playing and it's like a
Dope song and they killed it. They say Hannah home means like
They can't play it again. I remember yelling that when I was a kid or if you go
Or if you could do something fun and you guys are done you say your go buy this to your friends and you say what tomorrow
Hannah home means you and do that thing tomorrow
It's good again. Yeah, unless back to origin our company
Origin made a mech up by the way this stuff good stuff
Including geese for Gjitsu starting to jitsu ask ask me ask jockel whatever if you if you ask me or jockel what Gigi get here it is
on
Compromised not uncompromised no exception
No exception that I can take of anyway
You get an origin Gigi for many many reasons. I'm not gonna go into all of them
But they are made in America and they're made for jjitsu sounds weird right like a 40 minutes a jjitsu get it
Gits made for jjitsu yeah
Not as much as the origin geek. That's the thing you have a jjitsu guy who is an expert in textiles manufacturing
Something fashion I know I know but it's part of it and he's like you know what?
I'm gonna make a geek for jjitsu for doing jjitsu in
You know not just hey again, which is cool and you can use a rigiditsu. Let's make a bunch of blanks and whatever brands can buy them from us
And you know just kind of this thing and we'll ship into them in the US no, it's not that
Pete made jjitsu geese for jjitsu shape for jjitsu
Wove in for jjitsu. That's that's important part. Yeah, so when you put it on you do the jjitsu
Yeah, and when you put it in the dryer it actually dries
Yeah, which is even so this is totally different
So this gui these guis all of them perform when you do jjitsu and when you're not jjitsu
Yeah
Boom there it is and all made America didn't I mention that everything even the threads or made in America even the cotton is growing in America
No, yeah, most of us already know that but I'm gonna say it again because almost don't necessarily know that no, we do
It's pretty cool when you're putting on a gui and you know the people that actually
Made it yeah, that's what you did it yeah
Very supporting when you're when you know you're supporting the economic growth of this country
Yes, and at the same time you're getting the best possible gui you can get yeah
I'd say that's 100% positive. That's a win-win across the board and everyone's kind of in the game together
You have that additional like additional feeling situation. That's my opinion. That's my experience anyway
Also rashguards these are good rashguards by the way
While you're then getting good good rashguards. Is that just a matter of opinion? Okay, or do you mean not come look at the rashguards?
You'll like one
Get one of those boom
Also the immersion camp jjitsu immersion camp one of the best ways to learn anything
Including but not limited to jjitsu is
Divers to yourself in it. So immersive yourself in jjitsu you can on August 26
Two sessions you can go from the 26 27 28
29 and then the second session the 30 of through the second
September second or you can do it all either way. More self-induced do dean is going is dean going. Yes, so dean list is going
Jocca's going I'm going
Lave's going. Lave's going babin is going Dave Burke's going good deal Dave and jp's going
So
Maybe Mike and Flynn as far as the echelon front. Yeah, my team
Maybe you may be not no, I'm telling they're not so maybe not no not not going okay
Gotcha, I understand now. Okay, either way we're all gonna be there and if the question it is
I don't have any jjitsu at all
Jjitsu at all do I go to jjitsu camp?
Yes, yes, yes, and he's going to look okay and he's a very cool train hardcore for ADCC
And oh yeah somebody asked if if there's an is there a chance to go see the factory where everything's made
Yes, and the answer is affirmative
middle the week when's day in between jjitsu sessions go to the factory
You know get to see everything get to meet the people that make everything. It's awesome. Yes, very much so
That's a little hangout spot too. Last time where they were kind of hanging out there for a little bit
Yeah, yeah, I'm just gonna fun
But yeah, it's a good one that's gonna be a good one eat some lobster too if you like lobster
I don't know some people don't like like lobster so whatever maybe that's not the draw. Yeah, you some to take boom
All good good camp camp echo Lake layers
Hmm in Maine, I'll see you there also for fitness gear on it.com slash pickle good kettlebells on there
The best kettlebells better opinion my opinion. Yes, 100%
The only kettlebells I have on it kettlebells, and I think I have more or less all of them all
Mixed the Disney tiny small ones in one
Series or all of them all of them all of them all of them all of them all. You have a zombie one zombie one
Well, some of them were sold out. So aside from the sold out ones. Yes. Oh, actually I don't know Star Wars ones yet
You're getting them, but here's the same way. They ask you so that's a thing you just don't care if it's just in the game
Yeah, a little bit. You get different inspired for Boba Fett
Yes, see if there's a no one go, but here's a here's the thing on the honest like if I do have the same weight
Maybe I'll get one in one, you know, because I have double of everything
But wait double meaning four two
You can't talk yeah, too each one free channel, you know, you do the double of the whole hand at situations. Yeah, those are dope
Good thing to about on it.com that website is the information on there
Health various
philosophies and pursuits of
You know exercises and workout programs like depending on what you want to do stuff like that good information about the products to also
Sox
I know seems like a small deal, I know, but I just got some in their dope and they're kind of like
You know how like when you're going through the airport right you got to take off your shoes
Some of us some of us you know, I know I get it some people. They don't got to take off the shoes
But when you got to take off your shoes and you kind of have your socks one time
So I was going through I had the on it socks on I felt kind of some it cuz it felt dope because they're kind of dope
They looked dope, you know
Seems like a whole situation. Yeah, Brad get some socks and go travel report back
Anyway, on that dot-con slash chocolate let a real good stuff on there
Improved yourself also
when you are shopping or or when you're gonna shop for any of the books that chocolate recommends
Including chocolate books by the way extra ownership the updated one way the worry kid both of them
Dislinicals freedom field manual best kind of field manual or best kind of manual by the way field manual
Kind of you can read in the field anyway when you're shopping for any of these books
I kind of organized on jockelpodcast.com
Jockels books are in the front page right there kind of in plain view Marie decided what type of the way but this is gonna stay the same
I have a page though
Jockel podcast books or books from the episodes what it's called anyway
Top man you click on there. They're all organized by episode
Authors listed there with the title boom click through there boom good way to support by the get your books
Get your other stuff from Amazon whenever you're getting
Good way to support
People don't think that's a big deal it's a big deal
Just that small little action
There's a big reaction kind of like remember
Drop in a piece of sodium in water
People have been reminding me of that analogy recently
You know we haven't talked about it in a while you
Jumped piece of sodium in water it explodes huge small action by dropping a small little thing big reaction
So you
Fair enough there you go revisit that one anyway also
Subscribe to the podcast if you haven't already on iTunes
In stichor in google play and we'll or where relative is in a podcast a lot of podcast apps so subscribe good way to support also subscribe on YouTube
For the video version of this podcast it's something in what I call an important
The video version sure if you want to know what talk it looks like if you don't know or you want to know what I look like if you want to know what the guests look like
Because that I think
Is gonna peak your curiosity more so does my opinion anyway point there is video version of the podcast also excerpts on there will put on there
You know for you know you want to share some lessons that jocco talks about with your friends online email the tool whatever
Facebook whatever and you know they're more likely listen to a little excerpt then maybe a three-hour podcast on something
And sit through that one lesson you wanted them to learn you see them saying you know a YouTube subscribe if you want
Good way to support also jocco as a story it's called jocco store
This is where you can get the shirts the very shirt the jocco is wearing right now
You could have that exact shirt if you were if that even means anything to you
But I think the shirts are cool discipline equal freedom get after you know you want to represent in your part of the world in the field in the wild
That's the weekend jocco store.com this wind stuff on there as well and patches
hats two can hats truckers and flex fit. They're good. They came on good. I think
So go on there. Let me know what you think think they're good get something
If you don't think they're good. Let me know how I can improve a weekend improve collectively
The hat situations people are very vocal
We invite them to be vocal if they think of a
Product or a shirt design or something and I encourage that
Also rashcards on their good cool rashcards 19% increase in performance what we used to preach you know what I'm not going to continue preaching that also
Psychological warfare. I'll tell you what this is if you don't know
It's an album with tracks of jocco on there each track not singing he's saying stuff and there's what he's saying if you're having okay
If you're having we a moment of weakness on your kind of pursuit your campaign against weakness
You haven't tried but wake up waking up in the morning every once in a while or you're you're feeling you don't feel like working out
I know who you know that if you don't feel like working out you still work out
That's the deal you still work out even you don't but everyone's about you really don't feel like doing it or
You're so caught up in this other thing and you kind of play games with your mind
You're like you know what I could skip the workout and it's justified literally justified because I would get this other work done
Then I'm working on right now
That's another one
But you listen to this jocco jocco will tell you this track when we think one of the tracks on the album you listen to it
Jocco will tell you why you shouldn't skip the workout
I guess what you won't skip the workout
100% effective psychological warfare is what it's called jocco willing
It's on iTunes or Amazon or whatever you can buy it wherever you buy MP3s
That's where you can get it good way to support check also you can get
Jocco white tea you can get it dry in little tea bags and that's cool and now you can also get it in a can
cans of jocco white tea
Taste really good and
More important gives you an 8,000 pound deadlift which is you know not a big deal, but it's something yeah, so
No more of the sugar filled chemical-laced crappy energy drinks those are gone no more
Those days are over instead it's time for jocco white tea in a can
Books you mentioned them way the warrior kid series
Getting kids on the path now discipline hard work respect
The path to getting stronger smarter faster and better and if you don't believe me if you don't believe me
Check out my my social media check out my Twitter and you'll see kids kids
Working out cleaning the rooms voluntarily studying voluntarily doing book reports voluntarily check it out. It's awesome
You can
See it there get your kids on the path get your neighbors kids on the path and get your your nieces and nephews on the path
Also a path of a warrior kid that's all about hard work
You can go to Irish Oaks Ranch dot com and get some soap made by warrior kid Aden he started his own business. I got some still it's good to go
He gets it from goat milk. Yeah, let me add that so the again
I said this before it's important to understand to it with you know how you get like the year neighbor
Whatever they make their little designer soap
Maybe they looked it up on YouTube or how to make it or whatever they put their perfumes in they wrap it up in nice little net wrapping with a little ribbon
It's cool. I dig it I dig it
But you don't really ease that soap, you know, it's like all right. I'm not gonna use all of them. Thanks. You know, I got a soap decorative piece
Whatever it's not that kind of soap
Oh, it's legit so you go use soap. I didn't even think to say that because I thought everyone knew I
Got no people get suspect because he's young kid
Maybe or you just hear like oh special soap. I don't then depend on your experience. I'm sure people don't give you decorative soap items. No, they don't regularly
No, okay, but good thing about this soap from my opinion. It's all about function and this soap will help you stay clean
The discipline equals freedom field manual you can give the gift of discipline
You know if you know someone that's like sort of maybe got to foot off the path
That's a person that's right before you this political freedom field manual. Yeah, that's a person that you go. Hey, man
It's got this book, man. Give it just take a look at it. Yeah, just take a look at it
Well, yeah, doesn't look normal. No, it looks actually pretty dope. Yeah, and then they read something
And then they say you know what I don't know
Get some back on the path if you want the audio version of that it's discipline equals freedom field manual. It's
It's not an audible it's on iTunes Amazon music Google play other MP3 platforms
That's where it's at also for leadership extreme ownership is the leadership book
For the battlefield for business and for life now the audible version of
That is available on audible and it is me reading it and it's life-baden reading it
Otherwise known as Texas Batman because he talks it. How you doing?
So if you want to hear us read it not just reading it, but there's also sound effects some sound effects
We didn't go overboard even though we were tempted
We had to pull the reins a little bit
But I don't know why I didn't very talk about this very much, but yeah, check it out the audible version of that book
Also do September 25th the follow on book to extreme ownership
It's called the dichotomy leadership. It's available for pre-order
right now Amazon
Barnes and Noble local bookstore
If you want that first edition
version, which you do
Then order it now that way the
The publishing company whose lagging doesn't get it
Live in the stone ages they won't print enough and then you won't get a copy
It'll take an extra week. They got to print more like happen with the warrior kid books like to happen with the first extreme ownership like happen with this
Manico's freedom field manual
They ran out if you pre-order they won't run out
so pre-order
And if you need support at your business or your team we have Ashilon front
It's me, Lathab and JP to know Dave Burke our website is Ashilonfront.com and we solve problems through leadership
That's what we do all the problems you have in your business in your team and your organization the problems that you have all of them are leadership problems
All of them
That's a bold statement to make isn't it?
Yes, and it's factual
You're not going to solve those problems through spreadsheets
You're going to solve those problems through leadership
so
Let us know if you need some help and of course there's the master
We've done five monsters so far all of them sold out the last one we did in DC was nuts. It was awesome
Lot of knowledge that's getting put out lot of intensity
There's one more monster in 2018. It's a mr. 0.0 or six in San Francisco
October 17th and 18th it is going to sell out as well. It'll get mad
And you can't go because it's sold out
Going register extreme ownership.com and also for current military law enforcement firefighters paramedics
Border patrol other first responders
We got roll call 001 September 21st in Dallas, Texas. It's a focused one day leadership training seminar
And it's aimed at people in uniform then you can also register for that at extreme ownership.com
And until the master in San Francisco or the roll call or the immersion camp in Maine
If you want to maintain contact with us
You can't find us on the into webs echo is at echo Charles and I am at jocca willink and to those of you that are wearing the uniform out there on the front lines
Right now thank you for
Keeping evil at bay and the vets that have already served. Thank you for doing your share and to the
First responders police law enforcement firefighters paramedics border patrol
Thanks to all of you
For staying ready staying alert staying strong and keeping us safe
Here at home and to the families of all that serve. Thank you for your sacrifice
As your loved ones serve us and to the rest of you out there
Thanks for listening
Thanks for supporting you actually make this podcast possible so thank you, but
Never mind all that thanks for doing what you do every day. Thanks for waking up early and staying up late. Thanks for putting in the hours the long hours
grinding
Working
Making things happen standing up when the hard times come
And they come
You're not alone the hard times come to all of us and when they do
Stand up
Grit your teeth
And get after it
Until next time
This is echo and jockel out